BHOOMI JAIN
Portfolio Upgrade & AI Bot
Complete Build Roadmap · 2026

2
Total Phases
15+
Total Tasks
4–6 hrs
Est. Time
Pro Portfolio
Outcome

1. Overview & Goal
Your current portfolio significantly undersells what you have actually done. Based on your resume, you have 3 full internships with measurable impact, 4 strong AI projects, consecutive academic rank 1 finishes, 2 major leadership roles, and a 10/10 CGPA — none of which are properly represented on your site today.

This document is your complete step-by-step roadmap to fix that, and then add a custom AI bot that will set your portfolio apart.

🎯
Goal: A portfolio that is complete, credible, and uniquely yours — beating your brother's in both depth and visual polish, with a smarter embedded AI bot.

Phases at a Glance

01
Portfolio Refinements
Fix all content gaps · Add missing sections · Sharpen every description

02
The AI Bot
Floating chat bubble · Redirects to Claude or ChatGPT with your full context pre-loaded


2. Current vs Target — What's Missing
Element
Status Today
Target State
Browser tab title
❌ Says 'Your Name'
Bhoomi Jain | AI Engineer & Data Scientist
Hero tagline
⚠️ Generic filler
Unique, punchy, memorable line about you
Experience bullets
❌ Empty — just job title + date
Real impact metrics from your resume
Projects (count)
⚠️ 4 shown, 2 missing
All 6 projects shown with descriptions + tech stack
Achievements section
❌ Does not exist
1st rank x2, Budget 2025 seminar, hackathons
Leadership section
❌ Does not exist
CodeCrux founder, Eureka event head
Certifications section
❌ Does not exist
All certs listed with platform badges
LeetCode link
❌ Missing from header
Added alongside GitHub + LinkedIn
AI Bot
❌ Does not exist
Floating 💬 bubble → Claude/ChatGPT with your context
Skills section depth
⚠️ Lists only — no context
Grouped, relevant, tied to real work
About / hero bio
⚠️ One generic sentence
3 lines that tell your actual story


3. Phase 1 — Portfolio Refinements
Everything in this phase is a change to your existing index.html and style.css files. No new frameworks, no new tools — just adding the content that is already in your resume but missing from your site.

Task 1 · Fix the Browser Tab Title
FILE
index.html  —  <title> tag

Current:
  <title>Your Name | Portfolio</title>
Change to:
  <title>Bhoomi Jain | AI Engineer & Data Scientist</title>

⚡
This is the #1 thing a recruiter notices when they have 10 tabs open. 'Your Name' is a template default that makes the entire site look unfinished.

Task 2 · Rewrite the Hero Tagline
FILE
index.html  —  Hero / Home section

Current tagline:
  "Data Scientist | AI Enthusiast"
New tagline (proposed):
  "Building AI that ships — from autonomous agents to medical diagnostics."

Also expand your hero bio from 1 sentence to 3 lines, like:
Line 1: Who you are — 3rd-year Data Science student at R.A. Podar, CGPA 10/10.
Line 2: What you build — production AI systems using LangGraph, RAG, multi-agent frameworks.
Line 3: What drives you — open to collaborations, freelance, and full-time AI roles.

Task 3 · Beef Up All Experience Entries
FILE
index.html  —  Journey / Experience section

Each internship currently shows only the company name and dates. Replace with the actual bullet points from your resume:

Hrita Solutions Pvt Ltd  |  Jan 2026 – Present
Engineered a role-based CRM (React + Firebase) orchestrating 7+ workflow stages, saving 12+ hours/week of manual coordination.
Built an automated local-to-cloud Google Sheets sync pipeline handling 2,000–10,000 records via specialised agents with schema enforcement.

Softcell Technologies Global  |  Jun 2025 – Aug 2025
Benchmarked MLX vs PyTorch across 3 task types on M3/M4 hardware — MLX delivered 7.4x lower memory and 1.9x faster inference on Mistral.
Implemented distributed PyTorch DDP across a 3-node Mac Mini cluster (M4 Pro), achieving 96–97% accuracy at ~69k samples/sec per node.
Built an end-to-end Legal AI system for contract clause extraction and automated revision suggestions.
Built a Resume-JD matching platform with LLM-based similarity scoring, processing 50 resumes per bulk run.

Unified Mentor Pvt Ltd  |  Jan 2025 – Mar 2025
Delivered 3 end-to-end ML projects (Cybersecurity Threat Detection, IBM HR Attrition, Study Strategy Optimisation) on datasets up to 50,000 rows, achieving 90%+ accuracy across all three.
Compared 7 model architectures per task; tuned hyperparameters and validated with precision, recall, F1, and confusion matrix metrics.

Task 4 · Add 2 Missing Projects
FILE
index.html  —  Projects section

Your site currently shows 4 projects. Your resume has 6. Add these two:

Sentinel: Autonomous Multi-Agent Research System
What it does: A self-correcting LangGraph agent that detects and resolves LLM hallucinations via recursive feedback loops, delivering verified responses in 3–10 seconds.
Tech: LangGraph, LangSmith, GitHub Actions, ArXiv/Tavily routing, full CI/CD.
Outcome: Production-deployed MLOps pipeline with complete agent logic coverage.

Vidyut Sanchay | Intelligent Power Grid Orchestrator
What it does: Multi-agent procurement system integrating live market and logistics APIs using LangGraph + Llama-3.
Tech: LangGraph, Llama-3, ExtraTreesRegressor, Docker.
Outcome: 10–20% performance gain over baseline; 20–40% reduction in inference load time for 3GB+ models via Docker volume mounting.

Also update the 4 existing project cards with proper one-line descriptions and tech stack tags — currently they show zero information besides the title.

Task 5 · Add Achievements & Leadership Section
FILE
index.html  —  New section after Projects

This is the section your brother has and you currently lack entirely. Add the following:

Academic Excellence
First Rank in FY BSc AND SY BSc (Data Science & Analytics) — highest scores in 5+ subjects across both years.
CGPA: 10/10 — Mumbai University (current).
HSC: 91.8%  ·  SSC: 96.6%

Leadership & Events
CodeCrux — Event Head: Founded the college's first inter-university coding competition; managed a 12-person team from ideation to execution.
Eureka — Event Head: Designed and ran a real-world business case study event under the R&D Department, sourcing industry-grade problem statements.
Budget 2025 Seminar: Collaborated and worked directly under the Principal Income Tax Commissioner for the Budget 2025 seminar hosted at college.

🏆
These three points alone — founding a college's first inter-university competition, working under an Income Tax Commissioner, and consistent rank 1 — are genuinely rare. Make sure they are visible and specific.

Task 6 · Add Certifications Section
FILE
index.html  —  New section (after Achievements)
STATUS
Waiting for your certifications list

Once you share your certifications, we will build this section with:
Certification name
Issuing platform (Coursera, Google, Udemy, DeepLearning.AI, etc.)
Year completed
Clickable link or badge if available

Task 7 · Add LeetCode to Header Links
FILE
index.html  —  Navbar / header links
STATUS
Waiting for your LeetCode username

Add LeetCode alongside your existing GitHub and LinkedIn links at the top of the page. Format:
  GitHub  |  LinkedIn  |  LeetCode  |  Email  |  Download CV

Task 8 · Refine About / Hero Bio
FILE
index.html  —  Home section bio text

Current bio is one generic sentence that could belong to anyone. Replace with:

I am a Data Science & Analytics student at R.A. Podar College (CGPA: 10/10), currently working as an AI Intern at Hrita Solutions — building multi-agent systems, RAG pipelines, and production AI tools that actually ship.
I have interned at Softcell Technologies and Unified Mentor, founded my college's first inter-university coding competition (CodeCrux), and ranked 1st in my department two years running.
Open to collaborations, freelance AI projects, and full-time opportunities.


4. Phase 2 — The AI Bot
The bot is a floating 💬 chat bubble in the bottom-right corner of your portfolio. When clicked, it opens a panel offering two options: ChatGPT and Claude. Both links open pre-filled with a detailed system prompt about you, so the AI already knows everything — visitors can just start asking questions.

🤖
This approach requires zero API keys, zero server, zero cost. It works entirely via URL parameters and works on GitHub Pages out of the box.

How It Works — Technically

1
Visitor clicks the 💬 bubble in the bottom-right corner of your site.
2
A small panel pops up with your name, a one-liner, and two buttons: ChatGPT and Claude.
3
Clicking ChatGPT opens: chatgpt.com/?q=[your pre-filled context prompt]
4
Clicking Claude opens: claude.ai/new?q=[your pre-filled context prompt]
5
The AI receives everything about you as the first message — projects, skills, experience, personality — and the visitor just starts chatting.

What the Pre-Filled Prompt Will Say
The context prompt sent to both AIs will contain:
Your name, college, degree, CGPA
All 3 internships with their key accomplishments
All 6 projects with tech stacks and outcomes
Your skills and tech stack
Your achievements — rank 1 x2, CodeCrux, Eureka, Budget seminar
Your certifications and LeetCode profile
A note that you are open to collaborations and opportunities
Instruction for the AI: 'Answer questions about Bhoomi Jain as a helpful assistant who knows her portfolio.'

What the Bot Panel Looks Like

Hi! I'm Bhoomi's AI 👋
Ask me anything about Bhoomi — her projects, skills, experience, or availability.
[ Chat with Claude ]          [ Chat with ChatGPT ]

Visual Design of the Bubble
Position: Fixed, bottom-right corner (bottom: 28px, right: 28px)
Shape: Circular button, ~56px diameter
Icon: 💬 emoji or SVG chat icon
Color: Matches your portfolio's existing accent color
Animation: Subtle pulse ring on first load to draw attention
Panel: Slides up from bottom-right, ~300px wide, rounded corners, glassmorphism or solid card

What You Need to Provide for the Bot
Before I write the final bot code, I still need:


Item
Status
✅
Resume content (projects, experience, achievements)
Done — extracted from your PDF
⏳
Certifications list
Waiting — please share name + platform
⏳
LeetCode username/URL
Waiting — please share your profile link
✅
Bot style preference
Floating 💬 bubble — confirmed
✅
Color scheme
Match existing portfolio colors — confirmed


5. Execution Order — Step by Step
Follow this exact sequence. Each step is unblocked and ready to go except where marked WAITING.

#
Task
What I Need from You
Output File
1
Fix title + tagline + bio
Share index.html source
index.html
2
Beef up experience sections
index.html source
index.html
3
Add 2 missing projects
index.html source
index.html
4
Add Achievements section
index.html source
index.html
5
Add Certifications section
⏳ Your certifications list
index.html
6
Add LeetCode to header
⏳ Your LeetCode username
index.html
7
Build the AI bot widget
index.html + certs + LeetCode
bot.js or inline script
8
Final review + deploy
Upload both files to GitHub repo
Live on GitHub Pages


6. What You Need to Share Next
To begin building immediately, share the following in our chat:

Your certifications — name + platform (e.g., 'Machine Learning Specialization — Coursera')
Your LeetCode username or full profile URL
The raw HTML of your index.html file — go to GitHub repo → index.html → Raw → copy all
Your style.css file (same method) — so the bot matches your exact colors

🚀
Once you share the index.html and style.css, I will produce your complete updated files — ready to upload directly to your GitHub repo with zero extra steps.

Steps 1–4 (title, bio, experience, projects, achievements) are fully unblocked and can be done the moment you share your HTML file.
Steps 5–7 (certifications, LeetCode, bot) become unblocked once you share those two remaining details.


Ready when you are.
Share your HTML + certifications + LeetCode and we start building.
bhoomi901jain@gmail.com  ·  github.com/BHOOMIJ256
